1) What is AWS ? 

Amazon Web Services. It is a cloud platform. It is a collection of web services. 

2) What is service? 

Service is a specific utility which helps the clients.  

Eg: Google drive is a storage service. 

Gmail is an email service. 

3) Top three cloud platforms are AWS, Azure, GCP 

Cloud platform offers availability, Scalability, pay-as-you-go. 

Availability means there is no downtime. Only pre-requisite is to have an internet connection. 

Scalability is ability to grow in size. Instant elasticity (scaling up and down). Eliminate guessing of your infrastructure capacity needs. 

Pay-as-you-go is low ongoing cost, pay-as-you-go pricing with no upfront expenses or long-term commitments. 

4) What are the services provided by AWS? 

Compute 

Storage 

Database 

Migration 

Network and Content Delivery 

Management Tools 

Security & Identity Compliance 

Messaging 

#Compute Services 

includes services related to compute workloads. 

EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) 

Lambda 

Elastic Beanstalk 

#Storage Services 

includes services related data storage 

S3 (Simple Storage Service) 

Elastic Block Store 

Amazon Glacier 

AWS Snowball 

#Database Services 

used for database related workloads 

Amazon Aurora 

Amazon RDS 

Amazon DynamoDB 

Amazon RedShift 

#Migration Services 

used for transferring data to or from the AWS Infrastructure 

AWS Database Migration Service 

AWS SnowBall 

#Networking and Content Delivery Services 

used for isolating your network infrastructure, and content delivery is used for faster delivery of content. 

Amazon Route 53 

AWS CloudFront 

#Management Tools 

consists of services which are used to manage other services in AWS 

AWS CloudWatch 

AWS CloudFomation 

AWS CloudTrail 

#Security & Identity, Compliance Services 

services which are used to manage to authenticate and provide security to your AWS resources 

AWS IAM 

AWS KMS 

AWS Shield 

#Messaging Services 

consists of services which are used for queuing, notifying or emailing messages 

Amazon SQS 

Amazon SNS 

Amazon SES 

Amazon Pinpoint 

5) Advantages of AWS 

Easy to use, Flexible, Cost-Effective, Reliable, Scalable and high-performance, end-to-end security. 

 
